#summary Step-by-step guide to installation on Linux systems

Installation on a Linux system is relatively straightforward. The instructions below will guide you through installing all the required packages and compiling the source on a Debian-based system (eg Ubuntu).

===Install cmake===
{{{
sudo apt-get install cmake
}}}

===Install python modules, tk, tcl===
{{{
sudo apt-get install python2.5-dev python-numpy python-scipy python-setuptools python-vtk python-wxgtk2.8 python-pyrex freeglut3-dev libxtst-dev tk-dev tcl-dev
}}}

===Install Enthought ETS===
Different easy install eggs are available for different Linux distributions. The example below installs the egg for Ubuntu 'Gusty Gibbon'. You can see the different eggs [http://code.enthought.com/enstaller/eggs/ here], and will need to change 'ubuntu/gusty' depending on the distribution you are using. 
{{{
sudo easy_install -f http://code.enthought.com/enstaller/eggs/ubuntu/gutsy --prefix=/usr/local ets
}}}

===Install VTK===
You need to build VTK from source to get the right header files, so it is not possible to use apt. You can download and build VTK using CMake

{{{
mkdir ~/install
cd ~/install
wget http://www.vtk.org/files/release/5.2/vtk-5.2.0.tar.gz
tar xzf vtk-5.2.0.tar.gz 
cd VTK
ccmake .
}}}

Press 'c' to configure, then set the options as shown below

{{{
BUILD_EXAMPLES                  OFF                                          
BUILD_SHARED_LIBS               *ON*                                           
BUILD_TESTING                   ON                                           
CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE                                                             
CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX            /usr/local                                   
VTK_DATA_ROOT                   VTK_DATA_ROOT-NOTFOUND                       
VTK_USE_INFOVIS                 ON                                           
VTK_USE_PARALLEL                OFF                                          
VTK_USE_RENDERING               ON                                           
VTK_USE_VIEWS                   ON                                           
VTK_WRAP_JAVA                   OFF                                          
VTK_WRAP_PYTHON                 *ON*                                           
VTK_WRAP_TCL                    *ON*                                          
CMAKE_BACKWARDS_COMPATIBILITY    2.4                                          
}}}

Press 'c' to configure again, then 'g' to generate. CMake will then automatically exit. To build VTK type

{{{
sudo make
}}}

which will take some time. To install type

{{{
sudo make install
}}} 